# Notes - Week 2

## Introduction
This week, we are studying (G)FP scheduling in detail and analyzing possible heuristics
for idle processors to acquire new tasks to work on. It is also a first properly redacted
step towards defining the project's scope and requirements.


## simso
The `simso` DES is a great place to learn about scheduling algorithms.
Unfortunately the code is unmaintained and doesn't run; my Python and QtWebEngine
debugging skills are not on point to get it running so I will rather study the code.

I am currently not concerned with the backend implementation of this library, it is
essentially used for implementing schedulers as Python classes containing a handful
of callbacks to interact with the backend.

| Method Name          | Called When |
| -------------------- | ----------- |
| `init()`             | DES is started |
| `on_activate(job)`   | A job is activated |
| `on_terminated(job)` | A job is terminated |
| `schedule(cpu)`      | An executing task has reached the end of its time slice on a given cpu|


## Fixed Priority Scheduling

Here is my plain English translation for the FP implementation found in
`simso/schedulers/FP.py` for uni- and multiprocessor systems. We assume that there are
`m` distinct processors available, all identical in terms of functionality.

### init()
Initialize the list of ready jobs to be empty.

### on_activate(job)
Append the job to `ready_list`.

### on_terminated(job)
Reschedule the cpu.

### schedule(cpu)
Look at the `m` highest-priority jobs in the `ready_list`, dispatch them to processors if
possible, e.g.:
- If a lower-priority task is running, it can be pre-empted

## Task Model
### Sporadicity
The tasks in our environment are considered to be *sporadic*, which we define by having
the following properties (for a task with index *i*):
- a<sub>i</sub> : Start time
- d<sub>i</sub> : Deadline
- C<sub>i</sub> : Worst-case execution time (cumulated)
- D<sub>i</sub> : Deadline (relative)
- T<sub>i</sub> : *Period*<sup>1</sup>

1: Slight abuse of terminology. A more accurate term is *minimum inter-arrival time*, i.e.
minimum time that needs to pass between the start of said task and its next occurence. We
assume that `D <= T` in any case: a task can never reoccur before it is finished.

### Partitioning
For the purposes of this BSP, we will exclusively consider a "static with full
migration"/"1,1-restricted" approach (See CARPENTER).

What this means is the following:
- Tasks can be freely moved around processors (no processor affinity)
- Tasks have fixed priority known ahead of time

Additionally, task priorities are unique, such that there is a total strict ordering
in the set of task priorities.

### Poisson Processes
*Poisson processes* are mathematical models used to denote the probability of the
occurences of events over a given time interval. It is also a *discrete* model.


## Links:
- [simso](https://github.com/MaximeCheramy/simso)
- [Discrete Event Simulation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Discrete-event_simulation)
- [Priority Assignment](https://www-users.york.ac.uk/~rd17/papers/PriorityAssignmentForGFPScheduling3.5.pdf)
- [Poisson Processes](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/engineering/poisson-process)
- [GFPP Prio. Assignment](https://www.cse.chalmers.se/~risat/papers/Global_FP_TechReport_Sep_2012.pdf)
