# Week 3 - Notes
## Introduction
This week, we will be delving deeper into the concepts of statistical distribution,
and start to implement a basic program for the scheduling simulator. As I have never
probably programmed in Java before, this make take a while to get running.

## Discrete Event Simulation
A *discrete event simulator*, which we will now begin referring to as a DES, is a
program that can operate a state machine for dealing with time-based events in a
discrete time space, such that one can test if the logic is correct and efficient.

### Incremental Time Progression
Incremental time progression simulates each discrete step iteratively, in order.


### Next-event Time Progression
This progression type makes advantage of the fact that we "don't care" about
what happens inside of an event, that is we only check its duration and possible
interruptions or new event occurences on the side.


## SimPy
SimPy is a Python library which allows us to do precisely this. Here, events are
referred to as *processes* and implemented as generators on the user side.

XXX CODE EXAMPLE

Making time pass in the simulation simply consists in `yield`ing an `env.timeout`
event with a specified duration. These time intervals are not opaque black-boxes:
we can have multiple processes running concurrently that will return to the simulation
backend appropriately to deal with multiple events at once per time unit.

## Implementation: Tasksets
To get my hands on working with Java, I will implement the simple file frontend as
described in the abstract for this BSP. It will parse our format and store it into
the appropriate task class.


## Links
[Discrete-event Simulation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Discrete-event_simulation)
[SimPy Slides](https://stefan.sofa-rockers.org/downloads/simpy-ep14.pdf)

