# Notes - Week 6
This week we are looking deeper into implementing the DES.

## Comparison with simso
Simso makes heavy use of Python's generators'feature. There is no direct
equivalent for this in Java, so we will go without.

They are mainly used to allow a form of asynchronous code execution with
loose coupling between objects (e.g. `Processor`, `Job` etc.). Since our
implementation is simpler and more restricted, we can go without by using
a "game-loop" approach using tick-based time increments with a more
linear execution tree.

The loop could be summarized as follows in pseudocode:
```
for (int t = 0; t < MAX_DURATION; ++t) {
  for (j in new_jobs) {
    sched.add_job(j);
  }
  new_jobs.clear();

  for (p in processors) {
    if (t == p.next_schedule) {
      p.reschedule()
      p.next_schedule = t + SCHED_PERIOD;
    }
  }
}
```

In contrast, simso uses an event-based approach for CPU handling to
integrate it properly with generator-based execution. We only really need
the `RESCHED` event, which is expressed implicitly through
`Processor.next_schedule`.


## Scheduling Symmetry
An important concept for multiprocessor systems is *symmetry*. We
make the distinction between symmetric multiprocessing, where each
processor does exactly the same in terms of scheduling decisions, and
asymmetric multiprocessing, where some (usually 1 core) have different
tasks in scheduling execution. The most common case for the latter
involved a "master" CPU that assigns jobs to the others and does a bit
of work on itself.

SMP is the most common nowadays and is also what simso uses. For our use
case, we can arguably go without SMP and use a virtual master core.

Through our tick-based approach, each iteration of the main loop is
prefaced by some bookkeeping logic: this is essentially the work of a
master core. For the most part, it handles job **arrivals** before they
are added to the scheduler. We can do this because such details are
not relevant for the later purposes of our program.

This virtual core does not do any task work on itself, so we are
arguably using SMP either way.

## Notes
- SynchronizedQueue
- Tick method for `Job`
- Move Job constructor to Task

```
struct Event {
  Job job;
  enum {
    Activated,
    OnCPU,
    OffCPU,
    Terminated,
  };
};

struct Summary {
  Event[] 
};
```

- PQueue instead of set (priority as key)
- Skip blank ticks
  
